Add microshift-install (#53537)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/accessing-microshift-cluster-remotely.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift/microshift-install-rpm.adoc 

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="accessing-microshift-cluster-remotely_{context}"]
= Accessing the MicroShift cluster remotely

> Use the following procedure to access the MicroShift cluster remotely. 

Reviewer: This section is a little confusing because it's not clear what the "remote" host is. Some of the text seems to be written from the perspective of a user working directly on the microshift host, then accessing another host. But some of the matching instructions are suggesting commands from the opposite perspective.

What's the goal for this section?

Reviewer 2: The previous section described how to use `oc` on the system running MicroShift.

This section is about running `oc` from a different system, which requires users to take additional steps.

I agree “local” and “remote” is relative and thus ambiguous, but couldn’t come up with a better way of saying “on the MicroShift machine” vs “not on the MicroShift machine”.

.Prerequisites 

* You have installed the `oc` CLI. 

.Procedure 

> . Open the Kubernetes API port in the firewall of your {op-system} machine running MicroShift by entering the following command: 

Reviewer 2: This sentence and the one below ("Enter the following") are swapped.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ MICROSHIFT_MACHINE=<user>@<name or IP of your MicroShift machine>
----

. Enter the following command to `SSH` into the MicroShift service and open the firewall port for `6443/tcp`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ssh $MICROSHIFT_MACHINE "sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-port=6443/tcp && sudo firewall-cmd --reload"
----

. Optional: Enter the following command to create a `~./kube/` folder if your {op-system} machine does not have one: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir -p ~/.kube/
----

. Copy the generated `kubeconfig` file from the {op-system} machine running MicroShift to your local machine by entering the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ssh $MICROSHIFT_MACHINE "sudo cat /var/lib/microshift/resources/kubeadmin/kubeconfig" > ~/.kube/config
----

. Replace the `server` field in your `kubeconfig` file with the name or IP of your {op-system} machine running MicroShift by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sed -i "s|server: https://127.0.0.1:6443|server: https://$MICROSHIFT_MACHINE:6443|" ~/.kube/config
----

> . Verify that MicroShift running by entering the following command:

Reviewer 2: If we split local and remote access into different modules, I'd propse repeating this (verifying access works) to the other module, too.

Author: Got it. We have to split separate procedures into separate modules. Added this to `local`.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift/microshift-install-rpm.adoc 

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="accessing-microshift-cluster-remotely_{context}"]
= Accessing the MicroShift cluster remotely

Use the following procedure to access the MicroShift cluster from a remote workstation. 

.Prerequisites 

* You have installed the `oc` CLI. 

.Procedure 

[NOTE]
====

> The following procedure assumes that there are two users. The first user, `user@microshift`, is the user on the{product-title} host machine. `user@microshift` is responsible for setting up `op-system` machine so that it can be accessed by a remote user on a separate workstation.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following procedure assumes that there are two users. The first user, `user@microshift`, is the user on the {product-title} host machine. `user@microshift` is responsible for setting up `op-system` machine so that it can be accessed by a remote user on a separate workstation.  
```

The second user, `user@workstation`, accesses the {op-system} machine remotely from their workstation. 
====

> . As `user@microshift`, set the name of your MicroShift machine to `MICROSHIFT_MACHINE` by entering the following command: 
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> [user@microshift]$ MICROSHIFT_MACHINE=<user>@<name or IP of MicroShift machine> 
> ----
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> . As `user@microshift`, `SSH` into the MicroShift service and open the firewall port for `6443/tcp` on your {op-system} machine by entering the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. As `user@microshift`, on the MicroShift host, open the firewall port for Kubernetes API server (`6443/tcp`) on your {op-system} machine by entering the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> [user@microshift]$ ssh $MICROSHIFT_MACHINE "sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-port=6443/tcp && sudo firewall-cmd --reload"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[user@microshift]$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-port=6443/tcp && sudo firewall-cmd --reload
```

----

. Optional: As `user@workstation`, enter the following command to create a `~/.kube/` folder if your {op-system} machine does not have one: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
[user@workstation]$ mkdir -p ~/.kube/
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. As `user@workstation`, set a variable to hold the hostname of your MicroShift host by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
[user@microshift]$ MICROSHIFT_MACHINE=<name or IP of MicroShift machine>
----
```

. As `user@workstation`, copy the generated `kubeconfig` file from the {op-system} machine running MicroShift to your local machine by entering the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----

> [user@workstation]$ ssh $MICROSHIFT_MACHINE "sudo cat /var/lib/microshift/resources/kubeadmin/kubeconfig" > ~/.kube/config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[user@workstation]$ ssh <user>@$MICROSHIFT_MACHINE "sudo cat /var/lib/microshift/resources/kubeadmin/kubeconfig" > ~/.kube/config
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
[user@workstation]$ mkdir -p ~/.kube/
----

. As `user@workstation`, set a variable for the hostname of your MicroShift host by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
[user@microshift]$ MICROSHIFT_MACHINE=<name or IP of MicroShift machine>
----

. As `user@workstation`, copy the generated `kubeconfig` file from the {op-system} machine running MicroShift to your local machine by entering the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
[user@workstation]$ ssh <user>@$MICROSHIFT_MACHINE "sudo cat /var/lib/microshift/resources/kubeadmin/kubeconfig" > ~/.kube/config
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The `<user>` value is the name of the user that `user@workstation` will use to log in to the MicroShift host. 
====

. As `user@workstation`, replace the `server` field in your `kubeconfig` file with the name or IP of your {op-system} machine running MicroShift by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
[user@workstation]$ sed -i "s|server: https://<localhost_ip>:6443|server: https://$MICROSHIFT_MACHINE:6443|" ~/.kube/config
----

> . As the remote user, verify that MicroShift running by entering the following command:

Author: Messed up. It was originally all "As the remote user." I didn't replace this one.
